QUASI88改 Quick-Start Guide

This is a quick-start guide providing basic information
on setting up and using QUASI88改.

For detailed usage information,
please consult MANUAL.TXT (in Japanese).

[Directories]

If a sub-directory is missing, QUASI88改 will default to
the current working directory (usually, the location
of the executable). The following sub-directories are
configured by default.

DISK        Stores runtime disk copies
As disk images are writable by default, any disk image
loaded externally is copied in this directory, in order
to avoid overwriting original file data.
It is recommended to load disk images externally, but
loading from the DISK directory is also supported.

INI         Stores user configuration files
It is possible to override global settings by adding
configuration files in this folder. However, on
Windows, this is rarely needed, as global
configuration and the INI folder are both stored
in the QUASI88改 directory.

ROM         Stores ROM (BIOS) files
ROM files are required for the emulator to function.
For information on obtaining and naming ROM files,
please consult the section "Obtain ROM images".

SNAP        Stores snapshots
Snapshots (or screenshots) may be taken during
execution, and are saved in Bitmap format in this
folder.

STATE       Stores save states
RAM state may be saved during execution at any
time, and restored from this folder. Matching is
based on the loaded image file name.

TAPE        Stores tape data
Tape images may be stored in this directory. It is
recommended to use it only for save tapes, and load
all application images externally.

[Getting Started]

1. Obtain ROM images
Disk applications may run using the M88 pseudo BIOS:
http://www.retropc.net/cisc/m88/download.html

Some applications, however, must be started from
N88-BASIC, or require functions that are not
supported in this ROM. These applications require
legitimate PC-8801 ROM files.

ROM files may be named in QUASI88 or M88 formats:

QUASI88 Name	 M88 Name		 Contents

N88.ROM          N88.ROM         N88 BASIC ROM
N88EXT0.ROM      N88_0.ROM       N88 BASIC Exp. ROM Bank 0
N88EXT1.ROM      N88_1.ROM       N88 BASIC Exp. ROM Bank 1
N88EXT2.ROM      N88_2.ROM       N88 BASIC Exp. ROM Bank 2
N88EXT3.ROM      N88_3.ROM       N88 BASIC Exp. ROM Bank 3
N88N.ROM         N80.ROM         N BASIC ROM
N88SUB.ROM       DISK.ROM        Sub-CPU ROM
N88KNJ1.ROM      KANJI1.ROM      Kanji ROM V1
N88KNJ2.ROM      KANJI2.ROM      Kanji ROM V2
N88JISHO.ROM     JISHO.ROM       Dictionary ROM
FONT.ROM         FONT.ROM        Font image

2. Obtain application (disk or tape) images

QUASI88改 supports disk images in D88 format, and tape
images in CMT or T88 formats. These images must be
extracted from physical disks or cassette tapes.

3. Run an application

Loading may also be performed via a menu (the menu bar
with the Win32 version, or the QUASI88改 F12 menu in all
versions). In this case, the system may need to be
reset manually in order to boot from a new disk.

As a general rule, program disks must be loaded into
Drive 1:, while Drive 2: is reserved for any extra
data used by the loaded program.

In the Win32 version, inserting images may be performed
via drag & drop. The system will first attempt to read
a disk image. If this fails, then it will attempt to read
the same file as a tape image. Only one file may be
loaded at a time with this method.
Warning: when loading via drag & drop, the system
will automatically be reset.

Most disks may be loaded directly on reset. However,
there are exceptions where a special load process is
required.

To load tape images, the following process is usually
needed:

- Boot in N88-BASIC
- Enter: LOAD"CAS:
- Enter: RUN

Some images may not be compatible with every system.
Some images may not be compatible with every system mode.
If an image fails to boot, please try the following steps:

- Rewind the tape via the F12 menu
- Set the -cpu 2 and -fdc_wait options
- Boot in a different system mode (V1S, V1H, or V2)
